# Satoshi Notes

## Introduction

Satoshi Notes is a revolutionary note-taking application that prioritizes privacy and integrates Bitcoin for content monetization. Designed to run on your personal computer, it ensures your notes remain private and secure, free from Big Tech eavesdropping. With Satoshi Notes, you can effortlessly create, manage, and publish your notes in HTML without needing to learn Markdown. 

## Features

- **Privacy-Centric:** Runs locally on your Mac or PC, keeping your notes private and secure.
- **HTML Note Taking:** Easy-to-use interface, similar to popular note apps, without the need for Markdown.
- **Bitcoin Integration:** Monetize valuable content directly with Bitcoin, supported by ckBTC for fast and affordable transactions.
- **Blockchain Backup:** Optional saving of text online on the secure and independent Internet Computer blockchain.

## Getting Started

[Instructions on installation, setup, and basic usage]

## How to Contribute

We welcome contributions! If you're interested in helping with the development of Satoshi Notes, please check out our [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTION.md).

## Team

- **Joseph Hurtado** - Founder, CIO, Product Manager, Programmer
- **Valerii Ermolin** - Sr. Full Stack Developer
- **Declan Nnadozie** - Lead Rust Developer

##

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Rust Canister Development Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/rust/)
- [ic-cdk](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk)
- [ic-cdk-macros](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk-macros)
- [Candid Introduction](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/candid/)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd satoshi_note/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
